---
layout: home
permalink: /
title: Smart Air Quality Network
subtitle: The development of a close-meshed network of local fine-dust data, which can be fed and used well by general public.
---

**BACKGROUND / ADRESSED PROBLEM**: Traditionally, the contamination of the air
is detected by means of relatively few measuring stations by suitability-tested
stationary measuring technology. Thus, according to the EU Directive, only a few
organizations, including federal and state official agencies, are typically able
to collect and present high quality data. However, the spatial distribution of
air pollutants in urban atmospheres varies widely and depends on a number of
factors relating to both the issuers (spatial arrangement, temporal activity)
and the laws of pollutant propagation (orthography, wind field, turbulence).

**OUR GOAL**: The development of an intelligent, reproducible measurement
network in the model region Augsburg, that captures all currently available
aerosol and gas measurement data as well as meteorology using existing
technologies. For this purpose, new low-cost measurement technologies are to be
developed, deployed and brought into consistency with existing measurement data
in order to obtain informative data as realistically as possible in real-time.
The data network should capture and display the official and mobile data in such
a way that all measurement data can be used profitably in the future for
science, public authorities and citizens alike, e.g. as compatible for
scientific purposes as well as for user-oriented services, which are already
existing or developed. This results in a close-meshed network of local data that
can be used well by individuals.